blockbuilder: Basic alerts (#9723)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/manage/mimir-runbooks/_index.md

  1. Once ingesters are stable, revert the temporarily config applied in the previous step.

### MimirBlockBuilderNoCycleProcessing

This alert fires when the block-builder stops reporting any processed cycles for an unexpectedly long time.

> How it **works**:

Author: I'm not sure, we export the runbooks to the docs site. Here I'm sticking to how all other alerts are structured in this document. Let's look at their formatting in bulk separately.

> How it **works**:

Reviewer: Sounds good!

> - Block-builder periodically consumes a portion of the backlog from Kafka topic, and processes the consumed data into TSDB blocks. The block-buikder calls these periods "cycles".

Reviewer 2: [nit] Isn't partition more accurate here? It processes 1 partition at a time.

```suggestion
- Block-builder periodically consumes a portion of the backlog from Kafka partition, and processes the consumed data into TSDB blocks. The block-buikder calls these periods "cycles".
```

- If no cycles were processed during extended period of time, that can indicate that a block-builder instance is stuck and cannot complete cycle processing.

How to **investigate**:

> - Check block-builder logs to see what its pods are busy with. Troubleshoot based on that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the block-builder logs to see what its pods are busy with. Troubleshoot based on that.
```

Reviewer: Can we specify "what its pods are busy with". This sounds a bit jargony and anthropomorphic to me. What do the pods actually do?

Reviewer: Similarly, can we provide more detail into "troubleshoot based on that"? It feels a little open-ended.

I think clarifying the first point will help us to clarify the second.

### MimirBlockBuilderCompactAndUploadFailed

> How it **works**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How it works:
```

> - Block-builder periodically consumes data from Kafka topic, and processes the consumed data into TSDB blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The block-builder periodically consumes data from Kafka topic and processes the consumed data into TSDB blocks.
```

Reviewer: Could we say either "a Kafka topic" or "the Kafka topic" depending on which is more accurate?

> - It compacts and uploads the produced TSDB blocks to the object storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It compacts and uploads the produced TSDB blocks to object storage.
```

> - If block-builder encounters issues during compaction or uploading of the blocks if reports the failure metric, that triggers the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the block-builder encounters issues while compacting or uploading the blocks, it reports the failure metric, which then triggers the alert.
```

> How to **investigate**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to investigate:
```

> - Explore block-builder logs to check what errors are there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explore the block-builder logs to check what errors are there.
```
